- Python does not use delimiters but indentation to indicate code blocks
- Indentation is important in Python. Python uses 4 space indentation
- Colon indicates a new code block and an indent should follow
- Your codes should be able to handle exceptions
- Note that function names are that case sensitivity.
- It is good practice to define default values in case no input is given.
- variable names cannot start with numbers

``` python
print("string literal")
userVar = input ("prompt string literal")
# string replacement fields .format function
input ("Replace var1 {0}, var2 {1}".format (var1, var2))
```

- Input functions returns the user input as string datatype type hence we need to cast to the required type e.g. int(input())
- https://blog.finxter.com/string-formatting-vs-format-vs-formatted-string-literal/


IF-ELSE
``` python
if condition:
	# action
elif condition: 
	# action
else:
	# action
```
- order of logic is important as only if is always evaluated
- duplicating is bad
- COMMENTS in python use #

CONDITIONAL OPERATORS
- 	You can define comparisons similar to inequalities e.g. a<x<b
or you can use LOGICAL OPERATORS

LOGICAL OPERATORS
- 	and
- 	or
- 	not (i.e and not/or not)
- 	is 
- 	True or non-0 or non-empty string
- 	False or 0 or empty string
- 	None
- 	in - present within a sequence used in sequences, or you can check if a value is in a user input e.g. if “cinema” in userActivity. you can also do not in
- 	Be aware of check order - once the first false is detected in an AND expression, evaluation terminates. similarly for true for or statements 
- 	and has a higher precedence than all, else use parentheses - generally good practice that improves readability
- 	Truthy values like zero:
    - https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/truthy-and-falsy-values-in-python/
- 	Note the capitalistion of True and False and lower case for conditional
- 	Note that boolean logic has an order of priority e.g. and evaluates first and stops running at first not etc. You can control the logic by adding parentheses
    - https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#operator-precedence
- 	There are built in objects that are considered false e.g. empty sequences ""
	https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#truth-value-testing

- 	Note that in/not in does case-sensitive comparison for strings. use casefold since it handles non-english characters better than normal upper and lower case operations
- 	variable.casefold() instead of lowercase() because of language sensitivity e.g. German
- 	Casefold is a method acting on variable - The casefold() method removes all case distinctions present in a string. It is used for caseless matching, i.e. ignores cases when comparing.
- 	See also .casefold method vs .lower or .upper .capitalize methods
	https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods


LOOPS:
- 	For uses iteration of the loop over a set of values: loops over a iterable object instead testing a loop condition on a starting or ending value
  - 	assigns each of the values, one by one, to one or more variables
  - 	executes a block of code once for each value
  - 	iterated type string, sequence, range
  - 	providing a starting/ending value and incrementing a variable each time round the loop

- Looping over ranges - range is up to but not including
- 	See python documentation "i in range(1,4): # must be int


```python
for # iterable condition:
    # code block

while # true condition:
	# code block
```
- 	While loop is more for true/false condition rather than iterable sequence
- 	Good for when you do not know how many times you need to loop. e.g. file I/O
- 	Note that you need to initialise variables, unlike for loops, where i is implicitly defined in the condition definition. Note that for loops in python increase the index by 1 by default unless specified

- The range() function returns a sequence of numbers, starting from 0 by default, and increments by 1 (by default), and stops before a specified number.  Take note that the end value is not including.
```python
range(value)
range(start, end, step)
```

Loop Functions
- you can nest loops
- 	continue 
- 	break
- 	https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8420705/example-use-of-continue-statement-in-python
- 	In can also be used in sequences: if in, for in

While...Else:
- 	Else in a loop causes a block of code to be executed if the loop was allowed to continue to the end. 
- 	Else code only executes if the loop goes once through the sequence
- 	The indent of the else should be in line with the loop and not in the sub code

- pass : placeholder to make code syntatically correct


Methods:
- 	.isnumeric()
- 	.join
- 	.index

Others:
- 	Note: Python has no case or switch
- 	Augmented assigned (i += 1 ) is more computationally efficient in python (unlike c or java where it is identical)
- 	int division: // performs in place if mutable?

PEP8: Python Enhancement Proposal
- some companies have their own style guide e.g. Google
- use spaces instead of tabs to indent code
- max line length e.g. 72, although intelliJ uses 120
- function names and variable names should be lowercase and words should be separated by underscores e.g snake case 

--- 

for char in number:
    if not char.isnumeric(): #isnumeric is a method of char
        separators = separators + char
print(separators)
# check the documentation of .join.split?
values = "".join(char if char not in separators else " " for char in number).split()
print([int(val) for val in values])

LESSON 75 REFACTORING - using intelliJ refactoring to make it comply to PEP8 style guide
LECTURE 77
LECTURE 78 Conditional Debugging
LECTURE 79

a list is an ordered sequence of values. enclosed in square brackets






