- Python is an object-oriented, interpreted language
- supports several programming Paradigms: Procedural , functional, object oriented programming
- strongly typed, but also dynamically type, hence there is no need to declare variables.
- Python is strong/dynamically typed i.e. there is no need to declare the data type unless you want to make sure. Strongly typed means that different data types (for functions) cannot interact with other data types
- does not coerce types (e.g. does not concat int and str)  

- note that there is no backward compatibility between Python 2.7 and Python 3. Generally everyone is on Python 3.

- when calling functions, we pass arguments into the paratheses e.g. what we want to print (string literal) into print()
- strings can be single or double quoted and should be terminated corrrespondingly
- all functions need to be valled using (). Functions can take a fixed or variable number of arguments
- functions can return values

- escape characters include Next line \n or Tab \n in strings. e.g. "string \n string"
- note that if you need to use \n or \t in your string, you can escape the escape characters i.e. \\n or \\t
- if you need to use quotation marks, use escape characters: \' or \"
- note that a next line in triple quoted string means next line in the output, unless you escape the end of the line

- a variable gives a meaningful name to an area of memory where we can store data. python allocates the memory and assigns the automatically. variables are created using =, which binds values to variable
- it is more helpful to think the values have a type rather than a variable since it is dynamically typed.
- redefining (rebinding/reassigning) a variable automatically changes the type.
- note, variables cannot start with a number. the best practice to use camel or Pascal Case: HelloWorld
- data types in python include e.g.: numeric: Int, Float, Complex, Decimal, iterator, sequence, mapping, file class exception
- python does not have a limit for int/float types (limited by memory), although integers are faster in computation
- python floats have 52 digits of precision, but you can use decmial for more precision in python 3
- Order of Arithmetic Operations: PEMDAS: Parentheses, Exponents, Multiplication and Division (from left to right), Addition and Subtraction (from left to right) i.e Multiply/divide gets performed before Add/Subtract

- note that range inputs i.e. range(a,b) must be integers

- expressions are anything that can be evaluated to a value. literal values are theoretically expression and can hence be used where expressions are expected. expressions can be made of expressions e.g. a + b  

A sequence is an ordered set of items. Python has 5 sequence types.
- String
- List
- Tuple
- Range
- Bytes/bytearray

- You can have even have a sequences of sequences and index into them etc listofstrings[2][2]: access the third letter of the 3rd string in the letter (zero indexed, up to but not including)
- Indexes of the sequence can be used because the sequence is ordered
- Not all sequences can be concatenated e.g. range
- not all sequences can be concatenated e.g. range. you cant concatenate strings and other data types, and should use type coercion using str() or using the .format method instead of coercion (string replacement fields)
    -  you do not need `+` to concatenate, but it is easier to read 
- strings are zero indexed  

Default printing is 5 decimals. 12f default is 6 digits. python pads the floating points past 50-51dp with 0

