- CPython - most of the implementation is written in C
- comprehensions and generator expressions

- Dictionaries and sets are not sequences and cannot be indexed into. 
- Dictionaries use key-value pairs instead. It is equivalent to mapping (e.g. java Hashmap)
- Keys are unique hence a insertion with the same key will override will the previous value, preserving insertion order.
- Dictionaries literals are defined using curly brackets and colons { ‘key’ : ‘value’ }
- A dictionary can store any object as a value, even other dictionaries or keys of another dictionary.
- Dictionaries are designed to be accessed primarily by their keys

- Delete is marginally better in performance than pop
- IN checks if a key is in the dictionary

- .items() in Python 2 created a list making  a copy of the data, and used more memory. Earlier programs might have used the simple for loop, to avoid the extra memory overhead of using .items().
- Python 2.2 added a .iteritems() method, which works in a similar way to Python 3's .items() method.
- Python 3 now uses something called a generator, and doesn't copy the data from the dictionary. With Python 3, remember to use enumerate when iterating over sequences, and .items()
- when iterating over dictionaries. When you iterate over a dictionary with Python 3.7 and above, the keys will appear in the order they were added to the dictionary.

APIs
- API is an acronym for Application Programming Interface. It defines the objects and functions that are made available, and how to use them.
- https://github.com/googleapis/google-api-python-client/blob/master/docs/oauth-installed.md
- Authenticating users is extremely difficult to get right, and comes with all sorts of problems. If you need to perform authentication, let someone else handle it. Google, Apple and Facebook spend a lot of money on their authentication systems. They have the resources to make them secure, and the money to spend on development and testing.
- e.g. getpass module


Dict APIs
- Dict keys must be hashable and immutable. Tuples can be used if the content is immutable. Values can be any python object e.g another dict
- Keyword arguments are stored in a dict 
- sorted()
- LIFO e.g. stack, FIFO e.g. queue 

``` python
data[item] = data.setDefault(item,0) + item
# can use setdefault() which returns value if key exists or the default value e.g. 0 or defaultdict of collections module
`
```
- fromkeys or keys - Now not needed since you can use iterable
  - Python 2 used to copy keys to a list which was slow for large dictionaries
  - Python 3 uses a view object which but you can't modify it without modifying the underlying dictionary
  - The objects returned by dict.keys(), dict.values() and dict.items() are view objects. They provide a dynamic view on the dictionary's entries, which means that when the dictionary changes, the view
  reflects these changes.
- update - Updates values if key exists else inserts
  -  Updating does not change the position of a key imem insertion order is preserved. Can also use | and |= operators 
- values also returns a view object
- you can convert values() and keys() to a list `list()` but it's not efficient, or you can use items() instead

- The value is a reference to an object in memory 
- Copy will also copy the references I.e. shallow copy
- Shallow copy only copies references rather than the object itself 
- Create a new object and copy the (primitive) values from the old dictionary using copy but if there are deeper levels I.e. bested objects, you need to copy those values as well 
- Use deepcopy module and deep copy method which is recursive 
- Accessing data through a hash table is very fast, limited by the speed of the hashing function 
- ord returns the ASCII values of a char -  nowadays we use unicode
- any data structure is implemented by arrays
- Python hashlib contains a few common algorithms `original_hash hashlib.sha256 (python_program.encode('utf8'))`
  - Hashing functions uses algebraic coding
  - Hashing algorithms take in a byte array
  - hashes are not reversible to get the value although you can brute force by hashing alot of passwords and comparing the hashed version with the hash to crack
  - hash is also know as a digest 
  - used in secure file hashes, version control systems 
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_data_breaches
An object is hashable if it has a hash value which never changes during its lifetime (it needs _hash_() method), and can be compared to other objects (it needs an
Hashable objects which compare equal must have the same hash value (eq__() method).
A hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to fixed-size values. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, digests, or simply hashes. The values are used to index a fixed-size table called a hash table. Use of a hash function to index a hash table is called hashing or scatter storage addressing.
1. Convert variable length keys into fixed length (usually machine word length or less) values, by folding them by words or other units using a parity-preserving operator like ADD  or XOR.
2. Scramble the bits of the key so that the resulting values are uniformly distributed over the key space.
First, Pythons hash function randomizes the hashes that it produces. You'll get the same hash for any particular string, while your program's running. But each time you run the program, the hash codes will be different. That was introduced in Python 3.3, to prevent Denial of Service (DoS) attacks on web servers using Python dictionaries.
Second, integers that have their high bit set are interpreted as negative. That's why some of the hashes print out as negative. (twos complement)
Python creates hash tables using sparse arrays so that only the non-empty values get stored.

- Sets are an unordered collection and there is no way to retrieve a specific item from the set

